Big data, generated by organizations,
structured but often siloed.
The last type of big data we will discuss
is big data generated by organizations.
This type of data is the closest to
what most businesses currently have.
But it's considered a bit out of fashion,
or
traditional, compared to
other types of big data.
However, it is at least as important
as other types of big data.
So how do organizations produce data?
The answer to how
an organization generates data
is very unique to the organization and
context.
Each organization has distinct
operation practices and
business models, which result in
a variety of data generation platforms.
For example, the type and source of data
that a bank gets is very different from
what a hardware equipment
manufacturer gets.
Some common types of organizational big
data come from commercial transactions,
credit cards, government institutions,
e-commerce, banking or
stock records, medical records, sensors,
transactions, clicks and so on.
Almost every event can
be potentially stored.
Organizations store this data for
current and
future use, as well as for
analysis of the past.
Let's say you're an organization
that collects sales transactions.
You can use this data for pattern
recognition to detect correlated products,
to estimate demand for
products likely to go up in sales, and
capture fraudulent activity.
Moreover, when you know your
sales record and can correlate it
with your marketing records, you can find
which campaigns really made an impact.
You are already becoming
a data savvy organization.
Now think of bringing your
sales data together with other
external open public data,
such as major world events in the news.
You can ask, was it savvy marketing or
a consequence of external events
that triggered your sales?
Using proper analytics,
you can now build inventories to match
your predicted growth and demand.
In addition, organizations build and
apply processes to record and
monitor business events of interest,
such as registering a customer,
manufacturing a product or
taking an order.
These processes collect
highly structured data
that include transactions,
reference tables, and
relationships, as well as
the metadata that sets its context.
Usually, structured data is stored in
relational database management systems.
However, we call any data
that is in the form of
a record located in a fixed field or
file structured data.
This definition also
includes spreadsheets.
As I have mentioned before,
traditionally this type of
highly structured data is the vast
majority of what IT managed and
processed in both operational and
business intelligence systems.
Let's look at the sales transaction
data in our previous example.
If you look at the data in
the relational table on the right.
As the name structured suggests,
the table is organized to store data using
a structure defined by a model.
Each column is tagged to tell us what
data that column intends to store.
This is what we call a data model.
A data model defines
each of these columns and
fields in the table, and
defines relationships between them.
If you look at the product ID column,
you will see that it includes only
identifiers that can potentially be linked
to another table defining these products.
The ability to define such relationships,
easily make structured data,
or in this case relational databases,
highly adopted by many organizations.
There are commonly used
languages like SQL,
the Structured Query Language, to extract
data of interest from such tables.
This is referred to as querying the data.
However, it could even be a challenge
to integrate such structured data.
This image shows us a continuum
of technologies to model,
collect and query unstructured
data coming from software and
hardware components
within an organization.
In the past, such challenges
led to information being stored
in what we call silos,
even within an organization.
Many organizations have traditionally
captured data at the department level,
without proper infrastructure and
policy to share and integrate this data.
This has hindered the growth of
scalable pattern recognition
to the benefits of
the entire organization.
Because no one system has access to
all data that the organization owns.
Each data set is compartmentalized.
If such silos are left untouched,
organizations risk having outdated,
unsynchronized, and
even invisible data sets.
Organizations are realizing
the detrimental outcomes of this rigid
structure.
And changing policies and infrastructure
to enable integrated processing of
all data to the entire
organization's benefit.
Cloud-based solutions
are seen as agile and
low capital intensive
solutions in this area.
As a summary, while highly structured
organizational data is very useful and
trustworthy, and
thus a valuable source of information,
organizations must pay special
attention to breaking up
the silos of information to
make full use of its potential.